design.md, before:

# The Design of a Database-Linked Website for NCEA Level 2

Project Name: **Life Coaching Website**

Project Author: **Indiana Daikee**

Assessment Standards: **91892** and **91893**


-------------------------------------------------

## System Requirements

### Identified Need or Problem

My Mum needs a website to manage her services and keep track of her bookings for her life coaching business. 

### End-User Requirements

I have two end user groups: members of the public and my Mum. Requirements for members of the public include:
- A page listing my Mum's different services
- A page for creating a booking
- Attractive, aestetically pleasing website
- Suitable level of language


Requirements for my Mum include:
- Simple and easy to use interface


### Proposed Solution

Replace this text with a brief statement about the system that you intend to create, including the key functionality it should have.


-------------------------------------------------

## Relevant Implications

### IMPLICATION NAME HERE

Replace this text with a clear explanation of what the implication means.

Replace this text with an explanation of why the implication is relevant to this particular project.

Replace this text with an explanation of what you will need to consider moving forward and how the project will be impacted by this implication.

### IMPLICATION NAME HERE

Replace this text with a clear explanation of what the implication means.

Replace this text with an explanation of why the implication is relevant to this particular project.

Replace this text with an explanation of what you will need to consider moving forward and how the project will be impacted by this implication.

### IMPLICATION NAME HERE

Replace this text with a clear explanation of what the implication means.

Replace this text with an explanation of why the implication is relevant to this particular project.

Replace this text with an explanation of what you will need to consider moving forward and how the project will be impacted by this implication.


-------------------------------------------------

## Design, Development and Testing Log

### DATE HERE

Replace this test with what you are working on

Replace this text with brief notes describing what you worked on, any decisions you made, any changes to designs, etc. Add screenshots / links to other media to illustrate your notes where necessary.

### DATE HERE

Replace this test with what you are working on

Replace this text with brief notes describing what you worked on, any decisions you made, any changes to designs, etc. Add screenshots / links to other media to illustrate your notes where necessary.

### DATE HERE

Replace this test with what you are working on

Replace this text with brief notes describing what you worked on, any decisions you made, any changes to designs, etc. Add screenshots / links to other media to illustrate your notes where necessary.

### DATE HERE

Replace this test with what you are working on

Replace this text with brief notes describing what you worked on, any decisions you made, any changes to designs, etc. Add screenshots / links to other media to illustrate your notes where necessary.

### DATE HERE

Replace this test with what you are working on

Replace this text with brief notes describing what you worked on, any decisions you made, any changes to designs, etc. Add screenshots / links to other media to illustrate your notes where necessary.

### DATE HERE

Replace this test with what you are working on

Replace this text with brief notes describing what you worked on, any decisions you made, any changes to designs, etc. Add screenshots / links to other media to illustrate your notes where necessary.

### DATE HERE

Replace this test with what you are working on

Replace this text with brief notes describing what you worked on, any decisions you made, any changes to designs, etc. Add screenshots / links to other media to illustrate your notes where necessary.

Commit message:

design.md, started relevant implications

design.md, after:

# The Design of a Database-Linked Website for NCEA Level 2

Project Name: **Life Coaching Website**

Project Author: **Indiana Daikee**

Assessment Standards: **91892** and **91893**


-------------------------------------------------

## System Requirements

### Identified Need or Problem

My Mum needs a website to manage her services and keep track of her bookings for her life coaching business. 

### End-User Requirements

I have two end user groups: members of the public and my Mum. Requirements for members of the public include:
- A page listing my Mum's different services
- A page for creating a booking
- Attractive, aestetically pleasing website
- Suitable level of language


Requirements for my Mum include:
- Simple and easy to use interface


### Proposed Solution

Replace this text with a brief statement about the system that you intend to create, including the key functionality it should have.


-------------------------------------------------

## Relevant Implications

### Aesthetics

Aesthetics involves ensuring that a design looks good, appeals to the target audience and follows design conventions.

My website needs to look good in order to appeal to the public - it's well known that a prettier website improves public interaction. It is important that my design doesn't get in the way of established conventions however...

I will need to consider my choice of colour scheme, font, and element positioning. I will need to ensure that whenever I make design choices on the public part of the website I get feedback fom members of the public. I will also need to consider that my design is accessible to all people, which will affect my design choices.

### Accessibility

Accessibility is making sure everyone can use a website, no matter their device, disabilities, or technical expertise.

It's vital that *anyone* using my website is able to do so easily - every member of the public is a potential customer and having people be turned away because they aren't able to interact with my website (e.g. because they are colour-blind and can't read red text on green) would not only be bad for my Mum's business, but also verging on ableist - everyone should to be able to use my website.

To make my website accessible to all I will need to ensure that my website works on all devices and screen sizes - this may look like responsive design and/or a separate layout for mobile devices. I will also need to make sure the content of my website is able to be viewed and interacted with by everyone. This will include
- Selecting a good colour scheme to ensure that people with colour-blindness or impaired vision can read the text,
- Selecting a readable font and font size to make it readable on any device,
- Providing alt text for images to ensure that users with a screen reader can interact properly,
- Making UI components like buttons appropriately sized and easily clickable on all devices and screen sizes.

### Functionality

Replace this text with a clear explanation of what the implication means.

Replace this text with an explanation of why the implication is relevant to this particular project.

Replace this text with an explanation of what you will need to consider moving forward and how the project will be impacted by this implication.

### IMPLICATION NAME HERE

Replace this text with a clear explanation of what the implication means.

Replace this text with an explanation of why the implication is relevant to this particular project.

Replace this text with an explanation of what you will need to consider moving forward and how the project will be impacted by this implication.

### IMPLICATION NAME HERE

Replace this text with a clear explanation of what the implication means.

Replace this text with an explanation of why the implication is relevant to this particular project.

Replace this text with an explanation of what you will need to consider moving forward and how the project will be impacted by this implication.


-------------------------------------------------

## Design, Development and Testing Log

### DATE HERE

Replace this test with what you are working on

Replace this text with brief notes describing what you worked on, any decisions you made, any changes to designs, etc. Add screenshots / links to other media to illustrate your notes where necessary.

### DATE HERE

Replace this test with what you are working on

Replace this text with brief notes describing what you worked on, any decisions you made, any changes to designs, etc. Add screenshots / links to other media to illustrate your notes where necessary.

### DATE HERE

Replace this test with what you are working on

Replace this text with brief notes describing what you worked on, any decisions you made, any changes to designs, etc. Add screenshots / links to other media to illustrate your notes where necessary.

### DATE HERE

Replace this test with what you are working on

Replace this text with brief notes describing what you worked on, any decisions you made, any changes to designs, etc. Add screenshots / links to other media to illustrate your notes where necessary.

### DATE HERE

Replace this test with what you are working on

Replace this text with brief notes describing what you worked on, any decisions you made, any changes to designs, etc. Add screenshots / links to other media to illustrate your notes where necessary.

### DATE HERE

Replace this test with what you are working on

Replace this text with brief notes describing what you worked on, any decisions you made, any changes to designs, etc. Add screenshots / links to other media to illustrate your notes where necessary.

### DATE HERE

Replace this test with what you are working on

Replace this text with brief notes describing what you worked on, any decisions you made, any changes to designs, etc. Add screenshots / links to other media to illustrate your notes where necessary.
